# Changelog

## [10.0.4] - 2017-11-21

### Added

- `LIBLO_ERROR_PANICKED` return code for indicating that a panic was caught.

### Changed

- Identify Creation Club plugins using `.ccc` files instead of hardcoding them.
- Unwinding panics are now caught at the FFI boundary.
- Updated to esplugin v1.0.7.

## [10.0.3] - 2017-10-31

### Fixed

- Panic that could occur when loading state and implicitly-active plugins were
  not loaded in the order they appear in the load order.

## [10.0.2] - 2017-10-27

### Fixed

- Ghosted plugins being written to `plugins.txt` with their `.ghost` file
  extension, when saving a Fallout 4 or Skyrim Special Edition load order. This
  was broken in v10.0.1.

## [10.0.1] - 2017-10-27

### Changed

- Improved performance of setting and saving load order.

## [10.0.0] - 2017-10-14

### Added

- Support for light master plugins, i.e. plugins with a `.esl` file extension,
  in Fallout 4 and Skyrim Special Edition.
- All released Creation Club plugins as of Skyrim SE v1.5.3.0.8 and Fallout 4
  v1.10.26.0.0 are recognised as always being active if installed.
- `lo_load_current_state()` must be used to load load order state before
  operating on it for the first time, and reload it whenever there are external
  changes made to the load order.
- `lo_free_string()` must be used to free the memory allocated by any API
  function that outputs a C string, excluding `lo_get_error_message()`.
- `lo_free_string_array()` must be used to free the memory allocated by any API
  function that outputs an array of C strings.
- New C API error codes:

  - `LIBLO_ERROR_POISONED_THREAD_LOCK`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_ERROR`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_PERMISSION_DENIED`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_TEXT_ENCODE_FAIL`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_TEXT_DECODE_FAIL`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_INTERNAL_LOGIC_ERROR`

### Changed

- libloadorder has been rewritten in Rust. The library has been split into two
  crates: `libloadorder`, which contains the Rust implementation, and
  `libloadorder-ffi`, which contains the FFI wrapper.
- Attempting to write a plugin filename that cannot be encoded in Windows-1252
  is now a hard error, instead of that filename getting skipped and a warning
  code being returned.
- Memory allocation failure now causes a panic instead of returning an error
  code.
- C strings and arrays of C strings output by API game handle functions now have
  indefinite lifetime and must be explicitly freed using the provided API
  functions. Previous behaviour was that such output would be stored in
  thread-local storage until the next time the same data type was outputted, or
  until the associated game handle was destroyed.
- The API functions no longer manage the library's load order cache, instead
  exposing control to the client via `lo_load_current_state()`.
- The C string output of `lo_get_error_message()` no longer needs to be
  explicitly freed.
- The C/C++ headers have been replaced with one C header (`libloadorder.h`) and
  one C++ header (`libloadorder.hpp`).
- Many API function parameters have lost `const` qualifiers due to the C/C++
  headers being autogenerated and changes to string ownership.
- The library binary name has changed. Omitting
  platform-specific prefixes and suffixes, it is now `loadorder_ffi`.
- The documentation has been converted to Markdown and split up: the API
  reference documentation is stored with the code and generated by rustdoc, and
  the general load order documentation is now stored in `/doc` and generated
  by [mdBook](https://azerupi.github.io/mdBook/).

### Removed

- `lo_set_game_master()` was removed as it had no effect.
- `lo_is_compatible()` was removed as it was unnecessary as the library uses
  semantic versioning.
- `lo_cleanup()` was removed as it was made obsolete.
- Caching of plugin folder, active plugins file and load order file content, as
  profiling showed it was no longer effective.
- Some error codes were removed or replaced:

  - `LIBLO_WARN_BAD_FILENAME` is now indicated by `LIBLO_ERROR_TEXT_ENCODE_FAIL`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_FILE_READ_FAIL` is now indicated by `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_ERROR`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_FILE_WRITE_FAIL` is now indicated by `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_ERROR`,
    `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_PERMISSION_DENIED` and `LIBLO_ERROR_TEXT_DECODE_FAIL`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_TIMESTAMP_READ_FAIL` is now indicated by `LIBLO_ERROR_IO_ERROR`
  - `LIBLO_ERROR_NO_MEM` is obsolete as the Rust implementation panics on
    memory allocation failure
  - `LIBLO_WARN_INVALID_LIST` was unused for a few major versions

### Fixed

- Attempting to deactivate an implicitly active plugin that is not installed now
  causes an error.
- Attempting to set the active plugins giving an array including an implicitly
  active plugin that is not installed now causes an error.

## [9.5.5] - 2017-07-15

### Changed

- Rewrite the documentation using Sphinx, Breathe and Doxygen to produce
  better-looking documentation.
- The documentation is no longer generated as a post-build step, to fix builds
  when the documentation dependencies are not installed.

## [9.5.4] - 2017-11-23

### Fixed

- A crash caused by missing implicitly-active plugins.
- Implicitly active plugins being positioned incorrectly if one or more were
  missing.

## [9.5.3] - 2016-11-12

### Fixed

- The positions of implicitly-active plugins in `plugins.txt` is now ignored.

## [9.5.2] - 2016-11-11

### Changed

- Implicitly-active plugins are no longer written to `plugins.txt` for
  Fallout 4 and Skyrim Special Edition.
- The order assumed for Skyrim SE's implicitly active plugins, to match that
  assumed by Nexus Mod Manager and other utilities.

## [9.5.1] - 2016-11-08

### Fixed

- Implicitly-active plugins not loading first for Fallout 4 and Skyrim Special
  Edition.

## [9.5.0] - 2016-10-29

### Added

- Support for Skyrim Special Edition.

### Fixed

- Implicitly-active plugins were not treated as such if the active plugins file
  was missing.

## [9.4.1] - 2016-08-13

### Added

- Support for building with Clang.

### Changed

- Updated libespm to 2.5.4.
- Decouple Boost linking and runtime linking, so that one can be linked
  statically while the other is linked dynamically.

## [9.4.0] - 2016-06-21

### Added

- Support for upcoming Fallout 4 DLC plugins to be recognised as always being
  active if installed.

### Changed

- Don't throw if deactivating an implicitly active plugin that is not installed.

## [9.3.0] - 2016-05-21

### Added

- Fallout 4's Far Harbor DLC plugin is now recognised as always being active if
  installed.

## [9.2.0] - 2016-04-29

### Added

- Fallout 4's Automatron and Wasteland Workshop DLC plugins are now recognised
  as always being active if installed.

### Changed

- Documentation is now automatically generated and packaged.

## [9.1.0] - 2016-04-14

### Changed

- Getting active plugins now returns them in load order.
- Setting active plugins now appends any plugins that weren't already present to
  the load order in the order they were given.
- PDF documentation is now generated as a post-build step.

## [9.0.0] - 2016-04-11

### Added

- The `LIBLO_METHOD_ASTERISK` constant to indicate the new load order method
  now used by Fallout 4.

### Changed

- Updated Fallout 4 support to use new load order method introduced in
  Fallout 4 v1.5.

## [8.0.1] - 2016-04-10

### Fixed

- Mismatched CMake variable names causing build failures.

## [8.0.0] - 2016-03-22

### Changed

- Removed the 32/64 suffix from library binary filename.

## [7.0.1] - 2016-03-21

### Changed

- Use CMake's `ExternalProject_Add` to resolve dependencies.

## [7.0.0] - 2015-12-07

### Added

- Support for Fallout 4.
- The API is now thread-safe. String output is allocated in thread-local storage
  and freed when the game handle is destroyed. Error messages are allocated in
  thread-local storage that exists for the lifetime of the library.

### Changed

- Moved headers to `include` subdirectory.
- Improved generation of 64-bit build project for MSVC.
- Updated to libespm v2.5.0.
- libloadorder now checks that a plugin exists before trying to read its header,
  improving error handling.
- Internal refactoring.
- `lo_fix_plugin_lists()` no longer removes invalid plugins.
- `lo_set_load_order()` no longer appends installed plugins that were not
  specified.
- Cached data is now reloaded only when changes are detected in the relevant
  paths, rather than reloading all data whenever any change is detected.

### Removed

- Boost.Iostreams and Boost.Regex dependencies.
- Support for MSVC earlier than 2015.

### Fixed

- Moving plugins to the end of the load order.
- Running `lo_fix_plugin_lists()` for Skyrim.
- Don't unghost plugin the plugin passed to `lo_set_plugin_active()` if it's not
  being activated.
- Unghost the plugins passed to `lo_set_active_plugins()`.
- Passing `lo_set_active_plugins()` one or more plugins that have no existing
  load order position.
- `lo_get_load_order()` now returns an error code if passed a zero-length plugin
  array.
- `lo_set_active_plugins()` and `lo_set_plugin_active()` now error if passed an
  invalid plugin.
- `lo_set_active_plugins()` had no effect if it detected the load order had
  changed and reloaded it.
- libloadorder now checks that plugin files are valid instead of just that they
  exist when performing load order operations.
- Only valid plugins are now read from the active plugins and load order files.
- `lo_set_load_order()` now retains existing plugin active states.
- Setting the load order for a Timestamp-based game now appends plugins that are
  installed but not given in the input array to the end of the load order.
- Change detection now detects when timestamps have been updated with older
  values.
- Change detection now stores individual timestamps for each path monitored, so
  a change in one path is no longer obscured if the others don't change.
- Don't load plugins that don't end in `.esp`, `.esm` or `.ghost`.
- A memory leak when reallocating a string array.
- Error message typo.
- Building the tests against a static library.
- Building without Google Test present.

## [6.0.3] - 2014-12-21

### Changed

- Removed unnecessary validity checks when overwriting existing state.
- Plugin data is cached during reading of the load order to improve performance.

### Fixed

- Reading plugins from the load order file and active plugins file when Windows
  line endings are present.
- The timestamp for the first plugin in the load order was never set for
  Timestamp-based games.
- Non-unique timestamps causing not all plugins to be redated when setting the
  load order for Timestamp-based games.

## [6.0.2] - 2014-12-14

### Fixed

- Crash due to libespm trying to parse plugins that are not installed.

## [6.0.1] - 2014-10-10

### Fixed

- Validity checks were checking only active plugins when they should have been
  checking the whole load order.

## [6.0.0] - 2014-10-06

### Changed

- `lo_get_version()` now returns an unsigned integer code as it can fail.
- `lo_fix_plugin_lists()` is now more thorough, also checking that:
  - The game main master file loads first
  - All active plugins are installed
  - Masters load before non-masters
  - No more than 255 plugins are active
  - `Update.esm` is active if installed (for Skyrim).
- `lo_create_handle()` now checks that the given paths are valid filesystem
  paths.
- `lo_set_game_master()` now checks that the given plugin is valid.
- Skyrim's game master can no longer be set, as it must be `Skyrim.esm`.
- If an invalid load order is loaded, the API functions return
  `LIBLO_WARN_INVALID_LIST` instead of `LIBLO_OK`.

### Added

- Google Test-based tests.
- Travis CI builds.

### Fixed

- `lo_create_handle()` nulls the file handle output parameter if it fails.
- Crash when a zero-length load order is set.
- Crashes due to uncaught exceptions.
- Plugin validity checks now try to parse the file header, rather than just
  checking the file extension, to catch files that have the correct extension
  but aren't actually plugin files.
- Too many active plugins being deactivated when more than the maximum number
  of plugins are active.

## [5.0.0] - 2014-09-28

### Changed

- `lo_create_handle()` now takes a new parameter to allow clients to set the
  game's local data path. If `NULL`, the Registry is used to look the path up.
- Made API function parameters more `const`.

### Fixed

- Getting a plugin's masters for validity checks would always return an empty
  vector.

## [4.0.1] - 2014-07-07

### Fixed

- API constants not being exposed.

## [4.0.0] - 2014-06-27

### Added

- Support for MSVC 2012.

### Changed

- Libespm parsing errors are now propagated through the API.

### Removed

- Support for Skyrim versions earlier than v1.4.16, as Steam's auto-update means
  the vast majority of people will be using a newer version, and the support
  was interfering with a fairly common SKSE usage pattern.
- UTF8-CPP dependency. Boost.Locale is used instead.
- zlib dependency, as libespm no longer requires it when not reading compressed
  records.

### Fixed

- XP support when building with MSVC 2013.
- DLL linking errors.

## [3.0.3] - 2014-03-23

### Changed

- When setting plugin timestamps, libloadorder now recycles existing values,
  adding new timestamps only when the existing timestamps are non-unique.

### Fixed

- Crash due to error message use-after-free.
- Crash due to libespm parsing failure.
- Compiler error when building with MSVC 2013.
- Unreliable load order change detection based on plugins folder timestamp,
  which is no longer used.
- Potential crash due to allocation failure when storing an error string.

## [3.0.2] - 2013-09-26

### Changed

- Libespm is now used to parse plugin headers.
- More details are now supplied in some error messages.

### Fixed

- Crash when the load order file, active plugins file or their parent paths
  are missing.
- Filter patches causing missing master errors.
- `lo_get_load_order()` no longer returns missing plugins.

## [3.0.1] - 2013-07-23

- First tagged release.
