## False-Flagged Plugins

Whether a mod plugin is a master file or a non-master file is dependent not on its file extension (`.esp`, `.esm`), but is instead decided by the value of a setting inside the plugin file, known as its *master bit flag*. Master files have this set to `1`, and non-master files have it set to `0`. However, because ESM is an acronym for *Elder Scrolls Master*, and ESP is an acronym for *Elder Scrolls Plugin* (even for Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas), most people assume that master plugins are files with `.esm` extensions, while non-master plugins are files with `.esp` extensions.

This assumption is valid for the most part, as the vast majority of masters are `.esm` files, and the vast majority of plugins are `.esp` files. However, sometimes this is not the case. When a plugin has a `.esm` extension but has a master bit flag value of `0`, or has an extension of `.esp` and a master bit flag value of `1`, the plugin is said to be *false-flagged*, as its extension does not match its master bit flag value. False-flagged plugins are most common in Fallout 3 due to the use of FO3Edit's *Master Update* feature, which turns non-master plugins into false-flagged plugins, to avoid bugs that only manifest for non-master plugins.

The distinction between masters and non-masters is important for load order because the game will always load all masters before all non-masters, regardless of whether they are listed or dated (depending on your game) as such by the mechanism used to determine load order. Earlier versions of most if not all modding utilities, put all `.esm` files before all `.esp` files, but failed to take into account the value of the master bit flag of plugins. As such, the load order they displayed was incorrect, as it failed to take into account the game always loading masters before plugins. More recent versions of the most popular modding utilities, at least, properly display all master files before all plugin files.
